.\" -*- mode: troff; coding: utf-8 -*-
.TH "LIGHTNING-GETROUTES" "7" "" "Core Lightning pre-v24.08" ""
.SH
NAME
.LP
lightning-getroutes -- Command for routing a payment (EXPERIMENTAL)
.SH
SYNOPSIS
.LP
\fBgetroutes\fR \fIsource\fR \fIdestination\fR \fIamount_msat\fR \fIlayers\fR \fImaxfee_msat\fR \fIfinal_cltv\fR 
.SH
DESCRIPTION
.LP
Command \fIadded\fR in v24.08.
.PP
WARNING: experimental, so API may change.
.PP
The \fBgetroutes\fR RPC command attempts to find the best set of paths for the payment from \fIsource\fR to \fIdestination\fR of \fIamount_msat\fR, using the given \fIlayers\fR on top of the gossip information.  The result is constrained by \fImaxfee\fR, and will arrive at the destination with \fIfinal_cltv\fR.
.PP
NOTE: The returned paths are a different format then \fIgetroute\fR, being more appropriate for creating intermediary onion layers.
.PP
Layers are generally maintained by plugins, either to contain persistent information about capacities which have been discovered, or to contain transient information for this particular payment (such as blinded paths or routehints).
.PP
There are two automatic layers: \fIauto.localchans\fR contains information on local channels from this node (including non-public ones), and their exact current spendable capacities, and \fIauto.sourcefree\fR overrides all channels leading out of the \fIsource\fR to be zero fee and zero delay.  These are both useful in the case where the source is the current node.
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBsource\fR (pubkey): Node pubkey to start the paths
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBdestination\fR (pubkey): Node pubkey to end the paths
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBamount_msat\fR (msat): Amount to send. It can be a whole number, or a whole number ending in \fImsat\fR or \fIsat\fR, or a number with three decimal places ending in \fIsat\fR, or a number with 1 to 11 decimal places ending in \fIbtc\fR.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBlayers\fR (array of strings):
.RS
.IP "\(bu" 2
(string, optional): Layer to apply to the gossip map before attempting to find routes.
.RE
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBmaxfee_msat\fR (msat): Maximum fee to spend: we will never return a set of routes more expensive than this. It can be a whole number, or a whole number ending in \fImsat\fR or \fIsat\fR, or a number with three decimal places ending in \fIsat\fR, or a number with 1 to 11 decimal places ending in \fIbtc\fR.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBfinal_cltv\fR (u32): Number of blocks for the final node.  We need to know this because no HTLC is allowed to have a CLTV delay more than 2016 blocks.
.SH
RETURN VALUE
.LP
On success, an object is returned, containing:
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBprobability_ppm\fR (u64): The estimated probability of success using these routes, in millionths.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBroutes\fR (array of objects):
.RS
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBprobability_ppm\fR (u64): The estimated probability of success using this route, in millionths.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBamount_msat\fR (msat): The amount delivered to the \fIdestination\fR by this path.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBfinal_cltv\fR (u32): Number of blocks required by the final node (set by caller)
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBpath\fR (array of objects): The hops to get from \fIsource\fR to \fIdestination\fR.:
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBshort_channel_id\fR (short_channel_id): The channel joining these nodes.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBdirection\fR (u32): 0 if this channel is traversed from lesser to greater \fBid\fR, otherwise 1.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBamount_msat\fR (msat): The amount to send into this hop.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBnext_node_id\fR (pubkey): The peer id at the end of this hop.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBdelay\fR (u32): The total CLTV expected by the node at the start of this hop.
.RE
.SH
AUTHOR
.LP
<\fIlagrang3@protonmail.com\fR> wrote the minimum-cost-flow solver, Rusty Russell <\fIrusty@rustcorp.com.au\fR> wrote the API and this documentation.
.SH
SEE ALSO
.LP
lightning-askrene-reserve(7), lightning-askrene-unreserve(7), lightning-askrene-disable-node(7), lightning-askrene-create-channel(7), lightning-askrene-inform-channel(7), lightning-askrene-report(7), lightning-askrene-age(7)
.SH
RESOURCES
.LP
Main web site: \fIhttps://github.com/ElementsProject/lightning\fR
