.\" -*- mode: troff; coding: utf-8 -*-
.TH "LIGHTNING-ASKRENE-RESERVE" "7" "" "Core Lightning pre-v24.08" ""
.SH
NAME
.LP
lightning-askrene-reserve -- Command for informing askrene that you are trying a path (EXPERIMENTAL)
.SH
SYNOPSIS
.LP
\fBaskrene-reserve\fR \fIpath\fR 
.SH
DESCRIPTION
.LP
WARNING: experimental, so API may change.
.PP
The \fBaskrene-reserve\fR RPC command tells askrene that a path is being attempted.  This allows it to take that into account when other \fIgetroutes\fR calls are made.  You should call \fBaskrene-unreserve\fR after the attempt has completed.
.PP
Note that additional properties inside the \fIpath\fR elements are ignored, which is useful when used with the result of \fIgetroutes\fR.
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBpath\fR (array of objects):
.RS
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBshort_channel_id\fR (short_channel_id): The channel joining these nodes.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBdirection\fR (u32): 0 if this channel is traversed from lesser to greater \fBid\fR, otherwise 1.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBamount_msat\fR (msat): The amount to send into this hop.
.RE
.SH
RETURN VALUE
.LP
On success, an empty object is returned.
.SH
AUTHOR
.LP
Rusty Russell <\fIrusty@rustcorp.com.au\fR> is mainly responsible.
.SH
SEE ALSO
.LP
lightning-getroutes(7), lightning-askrene-unreserve(7), lightning-askrene-disable-node(7), lightning-askrene-create-channel(7), lightning-askrene-inform-channel(7), lightning-askrene-listlayers(7), lightning-askrene-age(7)
.SH
RESOURCES
.LP
Main web site: \fIhttps://github.com/ElementsProject/lightning\fR
