.\" -*- mode: troff; coding: utf-8 -*-
.TH "LIGHTNING-DISABLEINVOICEREQUEST" "7" "" "Core Lightning pre-v24.08" ""
.SH
NAME
.LP
lightning-disableinvoicerequest -- Command for removing an invoice request
.SH
SYNOPSIS
.LP
\fB(WARNING: experimental-offers only)\fR
.PP
\fBdisableinvoicerequest\fR \fIinvreq_id\fR 
.SH
DESCRIPTION
.LP
Command \fIadded\fR in v22.11.
.PP
The \fBdisableinvoicerequest\fR RPC command disables an invoice_request, so that no further invoices will be accepted (and thus, no further payments made)..
.PP
We currently don't support deletion of invoice_requests, so they are not forgotten entirely (there may be payments which refer to this invoice_request).
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBinvreq_id\fR (string): A specific invoice can be disabled by providing the \fCinvreq_id\fR, which is presented by lightning-invoicerequest(7).
.SH
RETURN VALUE
.LP
Note: the returned object is the same format as \fBlistinvoicerequests\fR.
On success, an object is returned, containing:
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBinvreq_id\fR (hash): The SHA256 hash of all invoice_request fields less than 160.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBactive\fR (boolean) (always \fIfalse\fR): Whether the invoice_request is currently active.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBsingle_use\fR (boolean): Whether the invoice_request will become inactive after we pay an invoice for it.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBbolt12\fR (string): The bolt12 string starting with lnr.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBused\fR (boolean): Whether the invoice_request has already been used.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBlabel\fR (string, optional): The label provided when creating the invoice_request.
.SH
AUTHOR
.LP
Rusty Russell <\fIrusty@rustcorp.com.au\fR> is mainly responsible.
.SH
SEE ALSO
.LP
lightning-invoicerequest(7), lightning-listinvoicerequests(7)
.SH
RESOURCES
.LP
Main web site: \fIhttps://github.com/ElementsProject/lightning\fR
.SH
EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1\fR: 
.PP
Request:
.LP
.EX
$ lightning-cli disableinvoicerequest -k \(dqinvreq_id\(dq=\(dqa621a0e8e8ea9aa97fd47ab9b140e413be7f4ea45377617e693eb7afe5a3dbf9\(dq
.EE
.LP
.EX
{
  \(dqid\(dq: \(dqexample:disableinvoicerequest#1\(dq,
  \(dqmethod\(dq: \(dqdisableinvoicerequest\(dq,
  \(dqparams\(dq: {
    \(dqinvreq_id\(dq: \(dqa621a0e8e8ea9aa97fd47ab9b140e413be7f4ea45377617e693eb7afe5a3dbf9\(dq
  }
}
.EE
.PP
Response:
.LP
.EX
{
  \(dqinvreq_id\(dq: \(dqa621a0e8e8ea9aa97fd47ab9b140e413be7f4ea45377617e693eb7afe5a3dbf9\(dq,
  \(dqactive\(dq: false,
  \(dqsingle_use\(dq: true,
  \(dqbolt12\(dq: \(dqlnr1qqgx5t5hcw5ru9fgkhgxj4thjq4ugzsk2fjhzat9wd6xjmn8ypnx7u3qd9h8vmmfvdj3yyrrd35kw6r5de5kueeqwd6x7un92qsqvgnwgcg35z6ee2h3yczraddm72xrfua9uve2rlrm9deu7xyfzr6jqwvfdqzcyypz6g3kyz34nfrl7lm6c3rushzxey3a55ecjgs6qp2vz8q78j336k0sgpvamrunx5t6vdaeu7nmmlh5u6f0dnscasy2alyxq79f5wnc043gxrzyqt640dmuj7c94644j5ae6wfse7tsejwqnmc575ly9t38h4hf\(dq,
  \(dqused\(dq: false
}
.EE
.PP
