.\" -*- mode: troff; coding: utf-8 -*-
.TH "LIGHTNING-UNRESERVEINPUTS" "7" "" "Core Lightning pre-v24.08" ""
.SH
NAME
.LP
lightning-unreserveinputs -- Release reserved UTXOs
.SH
SYNOPSIS
.LP
\fBunreserveinputs\fR \fIpsbt\fR [\fIreserve\fR] 
.SH
DESCRIPTION
.LP
The \fBunreserveinputs\fR RPC command releases (or reduces reservation) on UTXOs which were previously marked as reserved, generally by lightning-reserveinputs(7).
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBpsbt\fR (string): Inputs to unreserve are the inputs specified in the passed-in \fIpsbt\fR.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBreserve\fR (u32, optional): The number of blocks to decrease reservation by. The default is 72.
.SH
RETURN VALUE
.LP
On success, an object containing \fBreservations\fR is returned. It is an array of objects, where each object contains:
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBtxid\fR (txid): The transaction id.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBvout\fR (u32): The output number which was reserved.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBwas_reserved\fR (boolean): Whether the input was already reserved (usually \fCtrue\fR).
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBreserved\fR (boolean): Whether the input is now reserved (may still be \fCtrue\fR if it was reserved for a long time).
.LP
If \fBreserved\fR is \fItrue\fR:
- \fBreserved_to_block\fR (u32): What blockheight the reservation will expire.
.SH
ERRORS
.LP
On failure, an error is reported and no UTXOs are unreserved.
.IP "\(bu" 2
-32602: Invalid parameter, i.e. an unparseable PSBT.
.SH
AUTHOR
.LP
Lisa Neigut <\fIniftynei@gmail.com\fR> is mainly responsible.
.SH
SEE ALSO
.LP
lightning-unreserveinputs(7), lightning-signpsbt(7), lightning-sendpsbt(7)
.SH
RESOURCES
.LP
Main web site: \fIhttps://github.com/ElementsProject/lightning\fR
.SH
EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1\fR: 
.PP
Request:
.LP
.EX
$ lightning-cli unreserveinputs -k \(dqpsbt\(dq=\(dqcHNidP8BAF4CAAAAAZiQf/mEs4NcFFfD4K8xauOgSpbz/xeetoXVWAPCI0h6AQAAAAD9////AahhAAAAAAAAIlEg+3d9jpNmK0getyg5W+Mp31CPIRDKcJg/mZs/uaVrQ+GZAAAAAAEAiQIAAAABswU80whDZOoIHS/lfyxwmHh5USHBwbcjWHaJ9/XU+78BAAAAAP3///8CgIQeAAAAAAAiACDJvFwGPK7796bHgUQHtWJ7T4GotW7L6TLGgvnLrA0Z32INzQsAAAAAIlEgyRg+3pEh88b9FJiCLEenYCcyJ2ackJUIhDusW72BP2iYAAAAAQErYg3NCwAAAAAiUSDJGD7ekSHzxv0UmIIsR6dgJzInZpyQlQiEO6xbvYE/aAAA\(dq \(dqreserve\(dq=200
.EE
.LP
.EX
{
  \(dqid\(dq: \(dqexample:unreserveinputs#1\(dq,
  \(dqmethod\(dq: \(dqunreserveinputs\(dq,
  \(dqparams\(dq: {
    \(dqpsbt\(dq: \(dqcHNidP8BAF4CAAAAAZiQf/mEs4NcFFfD4K8xauOgSpbz/xeetoXVWAPCI0h6AQAAAAD9////AahhAAAAAAAAIlEg+3d9jpNmK0getyg5W+Mp31CPIRDKcJg/mZs/uaVrQ+GZAAAAAAEAiQIAAAABswU80whDZOoIHS/lfyxwmHh5USHBwbcjWHaJ9/XU+78BAAAAAP3///8CgIQeAAAAAAAiACDJvFwGPK7796bHgUQHtWJ7T4GotW7L6TLGgvnLrA0Z32INzQsAAAAAIlEgyRg+3pEh88b9FJiCLEenYCcyJ2ackJUIhDusW72BP2iYAAAAAQErYg3NCwAAAAAiUSDJGD7ekSHzxv0UmIIsR6dgJzInZpyQlQiEO6xbvYE/aAAA\(dq,
    \(dqreserve\(dq: 200
  }
}
.EE
.PP
Response:
.LP
.EX
{
  \(dqreservations\(dq: []
}
.EE
.PP
\fBExample 2\fR: 
.PP
Request:
.LP
.EX
$ lightning-cli unreserveinputs \(dqcHNidP8BAF4CAAAAAZiQf/mEs4NcFFfD4K8xauOgSpbz/xeetoXVWAPCI0h6AQAAAAD9////AfZRxQsAAAAAIlEg21kTTo7K2doCG6F2JqgaDjc1kRCrH7AL08oPVVJhuE+ZAAAAAAEAiQIAAAABswU80whDZOoIHS/lfyxwmHh5USHBwbcjWHaJ9/XU+78BAAAAAP3///8CgIQeAAAAAAAiACDJvFwGPK7796bHgUQHtWJ7T4GotW7L6TLGgvnLrA0Z32INzQsAAAAAIlEgyRg+3pEh88b9FJiCLEenYCcyJ2ackJUIhDusW72BP2iYAAAAAQErYg3NCwAAAAAiUSDJGD7ekSHzxv0UmIIsR6dgJzInZpyQlQiEO6xbvYE/aAAA\(dq
.EE
.LP
.EX
{
  \(dqid\(dq: \(dqexample:unreserveinputs#2\(dq,
  \(dqmethod\(dq: \(dqunreserveinputs\(dq,
  \(dqparams\(dq: [
    \(dqcHNidP8BAF4CAAAAAZiQf/mEs4NcFFfD4K8xauOgSpbz/xeetoXVWAPCI0h6AQAAAAD9////AfZRxQsAAAAAIlEg21kTTo7K2doCG6F2JqgaDjc1kRCrH7AL08oPVVJhuE+ZAAAAAAEAiQIAAAABswU80whDZOoIHS/lfyxwmHh5USHBwbcjWHaJ9/XU+78BAAAAAP3///8CgIQeAAAAAAAiACDJvFwGPK7796bHgUQHtWJ7T4GotW7L6TLGgvnLrA0Z32INzQsAAAAAIlEgyRg+3pEh88b9FJiCLEenYCcyJ2ackJUIhDusW72BP2iYAAAAAQErYg3NCwAAAAAiUSDJGD7ekSHzxv0UmIIsR6dgJzInZpyQlQiEO6xbvYE/aAAA\(dq
  ]
}
.EE
.PP
Response:
.LP
.EX
{
  \(dqreservations\(dq: []
}
.EE
.PP
