.\" -*- mode: troff; coding: utf-8 -*-
.TH "LIGHTNING-DELFORWARD" "7" "" "Core Lightning pre-v24.08" ""
.SH
NAME
.LP
lightning-delforward -- Command for removing a forwarding entry
.SH
SYNOPSIS
.LP
\fBdelforward\fR \fIin_channel\fR \fIin_htlc_id\fR \fIstatus\fR 
.SH
DESCRIPTION
.LP
The \fBdelforward\fR RPC command removes a single forward from \fBlistforwards\fR, using the uniquely-identifying \fIin_channel\fR and \fIin_htlc_id\fR (and, as a sanity check, the \fIstatus\fR) given by that command.
.PP
This command is mainly used by the \fIautoclean\fR plugin (see lightningd- config(7)), As these database entries are only kept for your own analysis, removing them has no effect on the running of your node.
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBin_channel\fR (short_channel_id): Only the matching forwards on the given inbound channel are deleted. Note: for \fBlistforwards\fR entries without an \fIin_htlc_id\fR entry (no longer created in v22.11, but can exist from older versions), a value of 18446744073709551615 can be used, but then it will delete \fIall\fR entries without \fIin_htlc_id\fR for this \fIin_channel\fR and \fIstatus\fR.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBin_htlc_id\fR (u64): The unique HTLC id the sender gave this (not present if incoming channel was closed before upgrade to v22.11).
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBstatus\fR (string) (one of \(dqsettled\(dq, \(dqlocal_failed\(dq, \(dqfailed\(dq): The status of the forward to delete. You cannot delete forwards which have status \fIoffered\fR (i.e. are currently active).
.SH
RETURN VALUE
.LP
On success, an empty object is returned.
.SH
ERRORS
.LP
The following errors may be reported:
.IP "\(bu" 2
1401: The forward specified does not exist.
.SH
AUTHOR
.LP
Rusty Russell <\fIrusty@rustcorp.com.au\fR> is mainly responsible.
.SH
SEE ALSO
.LP
lightning-autoclean(7)
.SH
RESOURCES
.LP
Main web site: \fIhttps://github.com/ElementsProject/lightning\fR
.SH
EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1\fR: 
.PP
Request:
.LP
.EX
$ lightning-cli delforward -k \(dqin_channel\(dq=\(dq109x1x1\(dq \(dqin_htlc_id\(dq=4 \(dqstatus\(dq=\(dqlocal_failed\(dq
.EE
.LP
.EX
{
  \(dqid\(dq: \(dqexample:delforward#1\(dq,
  \(dqmethod\(dq: \(dqdelforward\(dq,
  \(dqparams\(dq: {
    \(dqin_channel\(dq: \(dq109x1x1\(dq,
    \(dqin_htlc_id\(dq: 4,
    \(dqstatus\(dq: \(dqlocal_failed\(dq
  }
}
.EE
.PP
Response:
.LP
.EX
{}
.EE
.PP
\fBExample 2\fR: 
.PP
Request:
.LP
.EX
$ lightning-cli delforward \(dq109x1x1\(dq \(dq19\(dq \(dqfailed\(dq
.EE
.LP
.EX
{
  \(dqid\(dq: \(dqexample:delforward#2\(dq,
  \(dqmethod\(dq: \(dqdelforward\(dq,
  \(dqparams\(dq: [
    \(dq109x1x1\(dq,
    19,
    \(dqfailed\(dq
  ]
}
.EE
.PP
Response:
.LP
.EX
{}
.EE
.PP
