.\" -*- mode: troff; coding: utf-8 -*-
.TH "LIGHTNING-GETLOG" "7" "" "Core Lightning pre-v24.08" ""
.SH
NAME
.LP
lightning-getlog -- Command to show logs.
.SH
SYNOPSIS
.LP
\fBgetlog\fR [\fIlevel\fR] 
.SH
DESCRIPTION
.LP
The \fBgetlog\fR the RPC command to show logs, with optional log \fIlevel\fR.
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBlevel\fR (string, optional) (one of \(dqbroken\(dq, \(dqunusual\(dq, \(dqinfo\(dq, \(dqdebug\(dq, \(dqtrace\(dq, \(dqio\(dq): A string that represents the log level. The default is \fIinfo\fR.
.SH
RETURN VALUE
.LP
On success, an object is returned, containing:
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBcreated_at\fR (string): UNIX timestamp with 9 decimal places, when logging was initialized.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBbytes_used\fR (u32): The number of bytes used by logging records.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBbytes_max\fR (u32): The bytes_used values at which records will be trimmed .
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBlog\fR (array of objects):
.RS
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBtype\fR (string) (one of \(dqSKIPPED\(dq, \(dqBROKEN\(dq, \(dqUNUSUAL\(dq, \(dqINFO\(dq, \(dqDEBUG\(dq, \(dqTRACE\(dq, \(dqIO_IN\(dq, \(dqIO_OUT\(dq)
.RE
.IP
If \fBtype\fR is \(dqSKIPPED\(dq:
- \fBnum_skipped\fR (u32): Number of unprinted log entries (deleted or below \fIlevel\fR parameter).
.IP
If \fBtype\fR is \(dqBROKEN\(dq, \(dqUNUSUAL\(dq, \(dqINFO\(dq, \(dqDEBUG\(dq or \(dqTRACE\(dq:
- \fBtime\fR (string): UNIX timestamp with 9 decimal places after \fBcreated_at\fR.
- \fBsource\fR (string): The particular logbook this was found in.
- \fBlog\fR (string): The actual log message.
- \fBnode_id\fR (pubkey, optional): The peer this is associated with.
.IP
If \fBtype\fR is \(dqIO_IN\(dq or \(dqIO_OUT\(dq:
- \fBtime\fR (string): Seconds after \fBcreated_at\fR, with 9 decimal places.
- \fBsource\fR (string): The particular logbook this was found in.
- \fBlog\fR (string): The associated log message.
- \fBdata\fR (hex): The IO which occurred.
- \fBnode_id\fR (pubkey, optional): The peer this is associated with.
.SH
ERRORS
.LP
On failure, one of the following error codes may be returned:
.IP "\(bu" 2
-32602: Error in given parameters.
.SH
AUTHOR
.LP
Vincenzo Palazzo <\fIvincenzo.palazzo@protonmail.com\fR> wrote the initial version of this man page,
but many others did the hard work of actually implementing this rpc command.
.SH
RESOURCES
.LP
Main web site: \fIhttps://github.com/ElementsProject/lightning\fR
.SH
EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1\fR: 
.PP
Request:
.LP
.EX
$ lightning-cli getlog -k \(dqlevel\(dq=\(dqunusual\(dq
.EE
.LP
.EX
{
  \(dqid\(dq: \(dqexample:getlog#1\(dq,
  \(dqmethod\(dq: \(dqgetlog\(dq,
  \(dqparams\(dq: {
    \(dqlevel\(dq: \(dqunusual\(dq
  }
}
.EE
.PP
Response:
.LP
.EX
{
  \(dqcreated_at\(dq: \(dq1722303623.956237697\(dq,
  \(dqbytes_used\(dq: 1723719,
  \(dqbytes_max\(dq: 10485760,
  \(dqlog\(dq: [
    {
      \(dqtype\(dq: \(dqSKIPPED\(dq,
      \(dqnum_skipped\(dq: 2927
    },
    {
      \(dqtype\(dq: \(dqUNUSUAL\(dq,
      \(dqtime\(dq: \(dq59.598510878\(dq,
      \(dqnode_id\(dq: \(dq0266e4598d1d3c415f572a8488830b60f7e744ed9235eb0b1ba93283b315c03518\(dq,
      \(dqsource\(dq: \(dqchan#1\(dq,
      \(dqlog\(dq: \(dqNo peer channel with scid=6250403x3681116x19863\(dq
    },
    {
      \(dqtype\(dq: \(dqSKIPPED\(dq,
      \(dqnum_skipped\(dq: 1183
    },
    {
      \(dqtype\(dq: \(dqUNUSUAL\(dq,
      \(dqtime\(dq: \(dq71.923794351\(dq,
      \(dqnode_id\(dq: \(dq035d2b1192dfba134e10e540875d366ebc8bc353d5aa766b80c090b39c3a5d885d\(dq,
      \(dqsource\(dq: \(dqchan#2\(dq,
      \(dqlog\(dq: \(dqPeer permanent failure in CLOSINGD_COMPLETE: Funding transaction spent (reason=unknown)\(dq
    },
    {
      \(dqtype\(dq: \(dqSKIPPED\(dq,
      \(dqnum_skipped\(dq: 557
    },
    {
      \(dqtype\(dq: \(dqBROKEN\(dq,
      \(dqtime\(dq: \(dq89.108598990\(dq,
      \(dqsource\(dq: \(dqplugin-topology\(dq,
      \(dqlog\(dq: \(dqDEPRECATED API USED: listchannels.include_private by \e\e\(dq-c:listchannels#114/cln:listchannels#175\e\e\(dq\(dq
    },
    {
      \(dqtype\(dq: \(dqSKIPPED\(dq,
      \(dqnum_skipped\(dq: 1246
    },
    {
      \(dqtype\(dq: \(dqUNUSUAL\(dq,
      \(dqtime\(dq: \(dq95.217065000\(dq,
      \(dqsource\(dq: \(dqplugin-cln-renepay\(dq,
      \(dqlog\(dq: \(dqFailed to update hint channel 111x1x0: Failed to update scid=111x1x0 in the local_gossmods.\(dq
    },
    {
      \(dqtype\(dq: \(dqSKIPPED\(dq,
      \(dqnum_skipped\(dq: 1696
    }
  ]
}
.EE
.PP
