.\" -*- mode: troff; coding: utf-8 -*-
.TH "LIGHTNING-OPENCHANNEL_INIT" "7" "" "Core Lightning pre-v24.08" ""
.SH
NAME
.LP
lightning-openchannel_init -- Command to initiate a channel to a peer
.SH
SYNOPSIS
.LP
\fBopenchannel_init\fR \fIid\fR \fIamount\fR \fIinitialpsbt\fR [\fIcommitment_feerate\fR] [\fIfunding_feerate\fR] [\fIannounce\fR] [\fIclose_to\fR] [\fIrequest_amt\fR] [\fIcompact_lease\fR] [\fIchannel_type\fR] 
.SH
DESCRIPTION
.LP
\fCopenchannel_init\fR is a low level RPC command which initiates a channel open with a specified peer. It uses the openchannel protocol which allows for interactive transaction construction.
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBid\fR (pubkey): Node id of the remote peer.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBamount\fR (sat): Satoshi value that we will contribute to the channel. This value will be _added_ to the provided PSBT in the output which is encumbered by the 2-of-2 script for this channel.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBinitialpsbt\fR (string): Funded, incomplete PSBT that specifies the UTXOs and change output for our channel contribution. It can be updated, see \fCopenchannel_update\fR; \fIinitialpsbt\fR must have at least one input. Must have the Non-Witness UTXO (PSBT_IN_NON_WITNESS_UTXO) set for every input. An error (code 309) will be returned if this requirement is not met.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBcommitment_feerate\fR (feerate, optional): Feerate for commitment transactions for non-anchor channels: see \fBfundchannel\fR. For anchor channels, it is ignored.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBfunding_feerate\fR (feerate, optional): Feerate for the funding transaction. The default is 'opening' feerate.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBannounce\fR (boolean, optional): Whether or not to announce this channel.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBclose_to\fR (string, optional): Bitcoin address to which the channel funds should be sent on close. Only valid if both peers have negotiated \fCoption_upfront_shutdown_script\fR.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBrequest_amt\fR (sat, optional): An amount of liquidity you'd like to lease from the peer. If peer supports \fCoption_will_fund\fR, indicates to them to include this much liquidity into the channel. Must also pass in \fIcompact_lease\fR.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBcompact_lease\fR (hex, optional): A compact representation of the peer's expected channel lease terms. If the peer's terms don't match this set, we will fail to open the channel.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBchannel_type\fR (array of u32s, optional): Each bit set in this channel_type.:
.RS
.IP "\(bu" 2
(u32, optional): Bit number.
.RE
.SH
RETURN VALUE
.LP
On success, an object is returned, containing:
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBchannel_id\fR (hash): The channel id of the channel.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBpsbt\fR (string): The (incomplete) PSBT of the funding transaction.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBchannel_type\fR (object): Channel_type as negotiated with peer. \fI(added v24.02)\fR:
.RS
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBbits\fR (array of u32s): Each bit set in this channel_type. \fI(added v24.02)\fR:
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
(u32, optional): Bit number.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBnames\fR (array of strings): Feature name for each bit set in this channel_type. Note that \fIanchors_zero_fee_htlc_tx\fR is a deprecated synonym for \fIanchors\fR. \fI(added v24.02)\fR:
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
(string, optional) (one of \(dqstatic_remotekey/even\(dq, \(dqanchor_outputs/even\(dq, \(dqanchors_zero_fee_htlc_tx/even\(dq, \(dqanchors/even\(dq, \(dqscid_alias/even\(dq, \(dqzeroconf/even\(dq): Name of feature bit.
.RE
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBcommitments_secured\fR (boolean) (always \fIfalse\fR): Whether the \fIpsbt\fR is complete.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBfunding_serial\fR (u64): The serial_id of the funding output in the \fIpsbt\fR.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBrequires_confirmed_inputs\fR (boolean, optional): Does peer require confirmed inputs in psbt?
.LP
If the peer does not support \fCoption_dual_fund\fR, this command will return an error.
.PP
If you sent a \fIrequest_amt\fR and the peer supports \fCoption_will_fund\fR and is interested in leasing you liquidity in this channel, returns their updated channel fee max (\fIchannel_fee_proportional_basis\fR, \fIchannel_fee_base_msat\fR), updated rate card for the lease fee (\fIlease_fee_proportional_basis\fR, \fIlease_fee_base_sat\fR) and their on-chain weight \fIweight_charge\fR, which will be added to the lease fee at a rate of \fIfunding_feerate\fR * \fIweight_charge\fR / 1000.
.SH
ERRORS
.LP
On error the returned object will contain \fCcode\fR and \fCmessage\fR properties, with \fCcode\fR being one of the following:
.IP "\(bu" 2
-32602: If the given parameters are wrong.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
-1: Catchall nonspecific error.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
300: The amount exceeded the maximum configured funding amount.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
301: The provided PSBT cannot afford the funding amount.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
304: Still syncing with bitcoin network
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
305: Peer is not connected.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
306: Unknown peer id.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
309: PSBT missing required fields
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
310: v2 channel open protocol not supported by peer
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
312: Channel in an invalid state
.SH
AUTHOR
.LP
Lisa Neigut <\fIniftynei@gmail.com\fR> is mainly responsible.
.SH
SEE ALSO
.LP
lightning-openchannel_update(7), lightning-openchannel_signed(7), lightning-openchannel_abort(7), lightning-openchannel_bump(7), lightning-fundchannel_start(7), lightning-fundchannel_complete(7), lightning-fundchannel(7), lightning-fundpsbt(7), lightning-utxopsbt(7), lightning-multifundchannel(7)
.SH
RESOURCES
.LP
Main web site: \fIhttps://github.com/ElementsProject/lightning\fR
.SH
EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1\fR: 
.PP
Request:
.LP
.EX
$ lightning-cli openchannel_init -k \(dqid\(dq=\(dq03a00f49374e4bb876e766e9305e5fefa86e53dbc89a4f27d794b02f59ca316426\(dq \(dqamount\(dq=1000000 \(dqinitialpsbt\(dq=\(dqcHNidP8BAF4CAAAAAZiQf/mEs4NcFFfD4K8xauOgSpbz/xeetoXVWAPCI0h6AQAAAAD9////AahhAAAAAAAAIlEg+3d9jpNmK0getyg5W+Mp31CPIRDKcJg/mZs/uaVrQ+GZAAAAAAEAiQIAAAABswU80whDZOoIHS/lfyxwmHh5USHBwbcjWHaJ9/XU+78BAAAAAP3///8CgIQeAAAAAAAiACDJvFwGPK7796bHgUQHtWJ7T4GotW7L6TLGgvnLrA0Z32INzQsAAAAAIlEgyRg+3pEh88b9FJiCLEenYCcyJ2ackJUIhDusW72BP2iYAAAAAQErYg3NCwAAAAAiUSDJGD7ekSHzxv0UmIIsR6dgJzInZpyQlQiEO6xbvYE/aAAA\(dq
.EE
.LP
.EX
{
  \(dqid\(dq: \(dqexample:openchannel_init#1\(dq,
  \(dqmethod\(dq: \(dqopenchannel_init\(dq,
  \(dqparams\(dq: {
    \(dqid\(dq: \(dq03a00f49374e4bb876e766e9305e5fefa86e53dbc89a4f27d794b02f59ca316426\(dq,
    \(dqamount\(dq: 1000000,
    \(dqinitialpsbt\(dq: \(dqcHNidP8BAF4CAAAAAZiQf/mEs4NcFFfD4K8xauOgSpbz/xeetoXVWAPCI0h6AQAAAAD9////AahhAAAAAAAAIlEg+3d9jpNmK0getyg5W+Mp31CPIRDKcJg/mZs/uaVrQ+GZAAAAAAEAiQIAAAABswU80whDZOoIHS/lfyxwmHh5USHBwbcjWHaJ9/XU+78BAAAAAP3///8CgIQeAAAAAAAiACDJvFwGPK7796bHgUQHtWJ7T4GotW7L6TLGgvnLrA0Z32INzQsAAAAAIlEgyRg+3pEh88b9FJiCLEenYCcyJ2ackJUIhDusW72BP2iYAAAAAQErYg3NCwAAAAAiUSDJGD7ekSHzxv0UmIIsR6dgJzInZpyQlQiEO6xbvYE/aAAA\(dq
  }
}
.EE
.PP
Response:
.LP
.EX
{
  \(dqchannel_id\(dq: \(dqa5be438539f73c018a98a4b9dd557d62430881c56552025b5579d180cc3887ed\(dq,
  \(dqpsbt\(dq: \(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\(dq,
  \(dqchannel_type\(dq: {
    \(dqbits\(dq: [
      12,
      22
    ],
    \(dqnames\(dq: [
      \(dqstatic_remotekey/even\(dq,
      \(dqanchors/even\(dq
    ]
  },
  \(dqcommitments_secured\(dq: false,
  \(dqfunding_serial\(dq: 8199047277484638000,
  \(dqrequires_confirmed_inputs\(dq: false
}
.EE
.PP
\fBExample 2\fR: 
.PP
Request:
.LP
.EX
$ lightning-cli openchannel_init \(dq03a00f49374e4bb876e766e9305e5fefa86e53dbc89a4f27d794b02f59ca316426\(dq \(dq500000\(dq \(dqcHNidP8BAF4CAAAAAZiQf/mEs4NcFFfD4K8xauOgSpbz/xeetoXVWAPCI0h6AQAAAAD9////AfZRxQsAAAAAIlEg21kTTo7K2doCG6F2JqgaDjc1kRCrH7AL08oPVVJhuE+ZAAAAAAEAiQIAAAABswU80whDZOoIHS/lfyxwmHh5USHBwbcjWHaJ9/XU+78BAAAAAP3///8CgIQeAAAAAAAiACDJvFwGPK7796bHgUQHtWJ7T4GotW7L6TLGgvnLrA0Z32INzQsAAAAAIlEgyRg+3pEh88b9FJiCLEenYCcyJ2ackJUIhDusW72BP2iYAAAAAQErYg3NCwAAAAAiUSDJGD7ekSHzxv0UmIIsR6dgJzInZpyQlQiEO6xbvYE/aAAA\(dq
.EE
.LP
.EX
{
  \(dqid\(dq: \(dqexample:openchannel_init#2\(dq,
  \(dqmethod\(dq: \(dqopenchannel_init\(dq,
  \(dqparams\(dq: [
    \(dq03a00f49374e4bb876e766e9305e5fefa86e53dbc89a4f27d794b02f59ca316426\(dq,
    500000,
    \(dqcHNidP8BAF4CAAAAAZiQf/mEs4NcFFfD4K8xauOgSpbz/xeetoXVWAPCI0h6AQAAAAD9////AfZRxQsAAAAAIlEg21kTTo7K2doCG6F2JqgaDjc1kRCrH7AL08oPVVJhuE+ZAAAAAAEAiQIAAAABswU80whDZOoIHS/lfyxwmHh5USHBwbcjWHaJ9/XU+78BAAAAAP3///8CgIQeAAAAAAAiACDJvFwGPK7796bHgUQHtWJ7T4GotW7L6TLGgvnLrA0Z32INzQsAAAAAIlEgyRg+3pEh88b9FJiCLEenYCcyJ2ackJUIhDusW72BP2iYAAAAAQErYg3NCwAAAAAiUSDJGD7ekSHzxv0UmIIsR6dgJzInZpyQlQiEO6xbvYE/aAAA\(dq
  ]
}
.EE
.PP
Response:
.LP
.EX
{
  \(dqchannel_id\(dq: \(dqb3b2e46371876858784cd1b87ecf406e32d8f98b7a44b7f436d1dca317ce0f1b\(dq,
  \(dqpsbt\(dq: \(dqcHNidP8BAgQCAAAAAQMEmQAAAAEEAQEBBQECAQYBAwH7BAIAAAAAAQCJAgAAAAGzBTzTCENk6ggdL+V/LHCYeHlRIcHBtyNYdon39dT7vwEAAAAA/f///wKAhB4AAAAAACIAIMm8XAY8rvv3pseBRAe1YntPgai1bsvpMsaC+cusDRnfYg3NCwAAAAAiUSDJGD7ekSHzxv0UmIIsR6dgJzInZpyQlQiEO6xbvYE/aJgAAAABAStiDc0LAAAAACJRIMkYPt6RIfPG/RSYgixHp2AnMidmnJCVCIQ7rFu9gT9oAQ4gmJB/+YSzg1wUV8PgrzFq46BKlvP/F562hdVYA8IjSHoBDwQBAAAAARAE/f///wz8CWxpZ2h0bmluZwEILfzCFE4M1pQAAQMIIKEHAAAAAAABBCIAIMG0H4vceOuMkzqvG9svQmglTygLSd9kn0qrQFRmpEvIDPwJbGlnaHRuaW5nAQhU+Hu3eGH5tgABAwj2UcULAAAAAAEEIlEg21kTTo7K2doCG6F2JqgaDjc1kRCrH7AL08oPVVJhuE8M/AlsaWdodG5pbmcBCG0sGEoFgVYuAA==\(dq,
  \(dqchannel_type\(dq: {
    \(dqbits\(dq: [
      12,
      22
    ],
    \(dqnames\(dq: [
      \(dqstatic_remotekey/even\(dq,
      \(dqanchors/even\(dq
    ]
  },
  \(dqcommitments_secured\(dq: false,
  \(dqfunding_serial\(dq: 6122779721339107000,
  \(dqrequires_confirmed_inputs\(dq: false
}
.EE
.PP
