.\" -*- mode: troff; coding: utf-8 -*-
.TH "LIGHTNING-HELP" "7" "" "Core Lightning pre-v24.08" ""
.SH
NAME
.LP
lightning-help -- Command to return all information about RPC commands.
.SH
SYNOPSIS
.LP
\fBhelp\fR [\fIcommand\fR] 
.SH
DESCRIPTION
.LP
The \fBhelp\fR is a RPC command which is possible consult all information about the RPC commands, or a specific command if \fIcommand\fR is given.
.PP
Note that the $ lightning-cli(1) tool will prefer to list a man page when a specific \fIcommand\fR is specified, and will only return the JSON if the man page is not found.
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBcommand\fR (string, optional): Command to get information about.
.SH
RETURN VALUE
.LP
On success, an object is returned, containing:
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBhelp\fR (array of objects):
.RS
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBcommand\fR (string): The command.
.RE
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBformat-hint\fR (string, optional) (always \(dqsimple\(dq): Prints the help in human-readable flat form.
.SH
ERRORS
.LP
On failure, one of the following error codes may be returned:
.IP "\(bu" 2
-32602: Error in given parameters.
.SH
AUTHOR
.LP
Vincenzo Palazzo <\fIvincenzo.palazzo@protonmail.com\fR> wrote the initial version of this man page,
but many others did the hard work of actually implementing this rpc command.
.SH
RESOURCES
.LP
Main web site: \fIhttps://github.com/ElementsProject/lightning\fR
.SH
EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1\fR: 
.PP
Request:
.LP
.EX
$ lightning-cli help -k \(dqcommand\(dq=\(dqpay\(dq
.EE
.LP
.EX
{
  \(dqid\(dq: \(dqexample:help#1\(dq,
  \(dqmethod\(dq: \(dqhelp\(dq,
  \(dqparams\(dq: {
    \(dqcommand\(dq: \(dqpay\(dq
  }
}
.EE
.PP
Response:
.LP
.EX
{
  \(dqhelp\(dq: [
    {
      \(dqcommand\(dq: \(dqpay bolt11 [amount_msat] [label] [riskfactor] [maxfeepercent] [retry_for] [maxdelay] [exemptfee] [localinvreqid] [exclude] [maxfee] [description] [partial_msat] [dev_use_shadow]\(dq
    }
  ],
  \(dqformat-hint\(dq: \(dqsimple\(dq
}
.EE
.PP
\fBExample 2\fR: 
.PP
Request:
.LP
.EX
$ lightning-cli help -k \(dqcommand\(dq=\(dqdev\(dq
.EE
.LP
.EX
{
  \(dqid\(dq: \(dqexample:help#2\(dq,
  \(dqmethod\(dq: \(dqhelp\(dq,
  \(dqparams\(dq: {
    \(dqcommand\(dq: \(dqdev\(dq
  }
}
.EE
.PP
Response:
.LP
.EX
{
  \(dqhelp\(dq: [
    {
      \(dqcommand\(dq: \(dqdev subcommand=crash|rhash|slowcmd\(dq
    }
  ],
  \(dqformat-hint\(dq: \(dqsimple\(dq
}
.EE
.PP
