.\" -*- mode: troff; coding: utf-8 -*-
.TH "LIGHTNING-GETINFO" "7" "" "Core Lightning pre-v24.08" ""
.SH
NAME
.LP
lightning-getinfo -- Command to receive all information about the Core Lightning node.
.SH
SYNOPSIS
.LP
\fBgetinfo\fR 
.SH
DESCRIPTION
.LP
The \fBgetinfo\fR gives a summary of the current running node.
.SH
RETURN VALUE
.LP
On success, an object is returned, containing:
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBid\fR (pubkey): The public key unique to this node.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBalias\fR (string) (up to 32 characters): The fun alias this node will advertize.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBcolor\fR (hex) (always 6 characters): The favorite RGB color this node will advertize.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBnum_peers\fR (u32): The total count of peers, connected or with channels.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBnum_pending_channels\fR (u32): The total count of channels being opened.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBnum_active_channels\fR (u32): The total count of channels in normal state.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBnum_inactive_channels\fR (u32): The total count of channels waiting for opening or closing transactions to be mined.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBversion\fR (string): Identifies what bugs you are running into.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBlightning-dir\fR (string): Identifies where you can find the configuration and other related files.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBblockheight\fR (u32): The highest block height we've learned.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBnetwork\fR (string): Represents the type of network on the node are working (e.g: \fCbitcoin\fR, \fCtestnet\fR, or \fCregtest\fR).
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBfees_collected_msat\fR (msat): Total routing fees collected by this node.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBaddress\fR (array of objects): The addresses we announce to the world.:
.RS
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBtype\fR (string) (one of \(dqdns\(dq, \(dqipv4\(dq, \(dqipv6\(dq, \(dqtorv2\(dq, \(dqtorv3\(dq): Type of connection (until 23.08, \fCwebsocket\fR was also allowed).
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBport\fR (u16): Port number.
.RE
.IP
If \fBtype\fR is \(dqdns\(dq, \(dqipv4\(dq, \(dqipv6\(dq, \(dqtorv2\(dq or \(dqtorv3\(dq:
- \fBaddress\fR (string): Address in expected format for \fBtype\fR.
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBour_features\fR (object, optional): Our BOLT #9 feature bits (as hexstring) for various contexts.:
.RS
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBinit\fR (hex): Features (incl. globalfeatures) in our init message, these also restrict what we offer in open_channel or accept in accept_channel.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBnode\fR (hex): Features in our node_announcement message.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBchannel\fR (hex): Negotiated channel features we (as channel initiator) publish in the channel_announcement message.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBinvoice\fR (hex): Features in our BOLT11 invoices.
.RE
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBbinding\fR (array of objects, optional): The addresses we are listening on.:
.RS
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBtype\fR (string) (one of \(dqlocal socket\(dq, \(dqwebsocket\(dq, \(dqipv4\(dq, \(dqipv6\(dq, \(dqtorv2\(dq, \(dqtorv3\(dq): Type of connection.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBaddress\fR (string, optional): Address in expected format for \fBtype\fR.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBport\fR (u16, optional): Port number.
.RE
.IP
If \fBtype\fR is \(dqlocal socket\(dq:
- \fBsocket\fR (string): Socket filename.
.IP
If \fBtype\fR is \(dqwebsocket\(dq:
- \fBsubtype\fR (string): Type of address.
.LP
The following warnings may also be returned:
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBwarning_bitcoind_sync\fR: Bitcoind is not up-to-date with network.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBwarning_lightningd_sync\fR: Lightningd is still loading latest blocks from bitcoind.
.SH
ERRORS
.LP
On failure, one of the following error codes may be returned:
.IP "\(bu" 2
-32602: Error in given parameters or some error happened during the command process.
.SH
AUTHOR
.LP
Vincenzo Palazzo <\fIvincenzo.palazzo@protonmail.com\fR> wrote the initial version of this man page,
but many others did the hard work of actually implementing this rpc command.
.SH
SEE ALSO
.LP
lightning-connect(7), lightning-fundchannel(7), lightning-listconfigs(7)
.SH
RESOURCES
.LP
Main web site: \fIhttps://github.com/ElementsProject/lightning\fR
.SH
EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1\fR: 
.PP
Request:
.LP
.EX
$ lightning-cli getinfo
.EE
.LP
.EX
{
  \(dqid\(dq: \(dqexample:getinfo#1\(dq,
  \(dqmethod\(dq: \(dqgetinfo\(dq,
  \(dqparams\(dq: {}
}
.EE
.PP
Response:
.LP
.EX
{
  \(dqid\(dq: \(dq02bf811f7571754f0b51e6d41a8885f5561041a7b14fac093e4cffb95749de1a8d\(dq,
  \(dqalias\(dq: \(dqSLICKERGOPHER\(dq,
  \(dqcolor\(dq: \(dq02bf81\(dq,
  \(dqnum_peers\(dq: 0,
  \(dqnum_pending_channels\(dq: 0,
  \(dqnum_active_channels\(dq: 0,
  \(dqnum_inactive_channels\(dq: 0,
  \(dqaddress\(dq: [],
  \(dqbinding\(dq: [
    {
      \(dqtype\(dq: \(dqipv4\(dq,
      \(dqaddress\(dq: \(dq127.0.0.1\(dq,
      \(dqport\(dq: 9736
    }
  ],
  \(dqversion\(dq: \(dqv0.10.2\(dq,
  \(dqblockheight\(dq: 724302,
  \(dqnetwork\(dq: \(dqbitcoin\(dq,
  \(dqmsatoshi_fees_collected\(dq: 0,
  \(dqfees_collected_msat\(dq: \(dq0msat\(dq,
  \(dqlightning-dir\(dq: \(dq/media/vincent/Maxtor/C-lightning/node/bitcoin\(dq,
  \(dqour_features\(dq: {
    \(dqinit\(dq: \(dq08a0802a8a59a1\(dq,
    \(dqnode\(dq: \(dq88a0802a8a59a1\(dq,
    \(dqchannel\(dq: \(dq\(dq,
    \(dqinvoice\(dq: \(dq02000002024100\(dq
  }
}
.EE
.PP
