.\" -*- mode: troff; coding: utf-8 -*-
.TH "LIGHTNING-ASKRENE-LISTLAYERS" "7" "" "Core Lightning pre-v24.08" ""
.SH
NAME
.LP
lightning-askrene-listlayers -- Command to display information about layers (EXPERIMENTAL)
.SH
SYNOPSIS
.LP
\fBaskrene-listlayers\fR [\fIlayer\fR] 
.SH
DESCRIPTION
.LP
WARNING: experimental, so API may change.
.PP
The \fBaskrene-listlayers\fR RPC command reports any modifications each layer (or, the layer specified) would make to the topology, if it were used for \fIgetroutes\fR.
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBlayer\fR (string, optional): The name of the layer to report on.
.SH
RETURN VALUE
.LP
On success, an object containing \fBlayers\fR is returned. It is an array of objects, where each object contains:
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBlayer\fR (string): The name of the layer.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBdisabled_nodes\fR (array of pubkeys):
.RS
.IP "\(bu" 2
(pubkey, optional): The id of the disabled node.
.RE
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBcreated_channels\fR (array of objects):
.RS
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBsource\fR (pubkey): The source node id for the channel.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBdestination\fR (pubkey): The destination node id for the channel.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBshort_channel_id\fR (short_channel_id): The short channel id for the channel.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBcapacity_msat\fR (msat): The capacity (onchain size) of the channel.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBhtlc_minimum_msat\fR (msat): The minimum value allowed in this direction.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBhtlc_maximum_msat\fR (msat): The maximum value allowed in this direction.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBfee_base_msat\fR (msat): The base fee to apply to use the channel in this direction.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBfee_proportional_millionths\fR (u32): The proportional fee (in parts per million) to apply to use the channel in this direction.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBdelay\fR (u16): The CLTV delay required for this direction.
.RE
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBconstraints\fR (array of objects):
.RS
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBshort_channel_id\fR (short_channel_id): The short channel id.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBdirection\fR (u32): The direction.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBmaximum_msat\fR (msat, optional): The maximum value which this channel could pass.  This or \fIminimum_msat\fR will be present, but not both.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBminimum_msat\fR (msat, optional): The minimum value which this channel could pass.  This or \fIminimum_msat\fR will be present, but not both.
.RE
.SH
AUTHOR
.LP
Rusty Russell <\fIrusty@rustcorp.com.au\fR> is mainly responsible.
.SH
SEE ALSO
.LP
lightning-getroutes(7), lightning-askrene-disable-node(7), lightning-askrene-create-channel(7), lightning-askrene-inform-channel(7), lightning-askrene-age(7)
.SH
RESOURCES
.LP
Main web site: \fIhttps://github.com/ElementsProject/lightning\fR
