.\" -*- mode: troff; coding: utf-8 -*-
.TH "LIGHTNING-DATASTOREUSAGE" "7" "" "Core Lightning pre-v24.08" ""
.SH
NAME
.LP
lightning-datastoreusage -- Command for listing datastore usage info
.SH
SYNOPSIS
.LP
\fBdatastoreusage\fR [\fIkey\fR] 
.SH
DESCRIPTION
.LP
Command \fIadded\fR in v23.11.
.PP
The \fBdatastoreusage\fR RPC command allows the caller to fetch the total bytes that are stored under a certain \fIkey\fR (or from the root), including the size of the \fIkey\fR.
.PP
All descendants of the \fIkey\fR (or root) are taken into account.
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBkey\fR (one of, optional):
.RS
.IP "\(bu" 2
(array of strings): Key is an array of values (though a single value is treated as a one-element array). Used as the starting point to traverse the datastore.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
(string, optional)
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
(string)
.RE
.SH
RETURN VALUE
.LP
On success, an object containing \fBdatastoreusage\fR is returned. It is an object containing:
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBkey\fR (string): The key from which the database was traversed. \fI(added v23.11)\fR
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBtotal_bytes\fR (u64): The total bytes that are stored under the \fIkey\fR, including the all descendants data and the size of the keys themselves. \fI(added v23.11)\fR
.SH
AUTHOR
.LP
Peter Neuroth <\fIpet.v.ne@gmail.com\fR> is mainly responsible.
.SH
SEE ALSO
.LP
lightning-datastore(7), lightning-deldatastore(7), lightning-listdatastore(7)
.SH
RESOURCES
.LP
Main web site: \fIhttps://github.com/ElementsProject/lightning\fR
.SH
EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1\fR: 
.PP
Request:
.LP
.EX
$ lightning-cli datastoreusage
.EE
.LP
.EX
{
  \(dqid\(dq: \(dqexample:datastoreusage#1\(dq,
  \(dqmethod\(dq: \(dqdatastoreusage\(dq,
  \(dqparams\(dq: {}
}
.EE
.PP
Response:
.LP
.EX
{
  \(dqdatastoreusage\(dq: {
    \(dqkey\(dq: \(dq[]\(dq,
    \(dqtotal_bytes\(dq: 55
  }
}
.EE
.PP
\fBExample 2\fR: 
.PP
Request:
.LP
.EX
$ lightning-cli datastoreusage -k \(dqkey\(dq='[\(dqtest\(dq, \(dqname\(dq]'
.EE
.LP
.EX
{
  \(dqid\(dq: \(dqexample:datastoreusage#2\(dq,
  \(dqmethod\(dq: \(dqdatastoreusage\(dq,
  \(dqparams\(dq: {
    \(dqkey\(dq: [
      \(dqtest\(dq,
      \(dqname\(dq
    ]
  }
}
.EE
.PP
Response:
.LP
.EX
{
  \(dqdatastoreusage\(dq: {
    \(dqkey\(dq: \(dq[test,name]\(dq,
    \(dqtotal_bytes\(dq: 33
  }
}
.EE
.PP
\fBExample 3\fR: 
.PP
Request:
.LP
.EX
$ lightning-cli datastoreusage -k \(dqkey\(dq=\(dqotherkey\(dq
.EE
.LP
.EX
{
  \(dqid\(dq: \(dqexample:datastoreusage#3\(dq,
  \(dqmethod\(dq: \(dqdatastoreusage\(dq,
  \(dqparams\(dq: {
    \(dqkey\(dq: \(dqotherkey\(dq
  }
}
.EE
.PP
Response:
.LP
.EX
{
  \(dqdatastoreusage\(dq: {
    \(dqkey\(dq: \(dq[otherkey]\(dq,
    \(dqtotal_bytes\(dq: 14
  }
}
.EE
.PP
