.\" -*- mode: troff; coding: utf-8 -*-
.TH "LIGHTNING-ASKRENE-INFORM-CHANNEL" "7" "" "Core Lightning pre-v24.08" ""
.SH
NAME
.LP
lightning-askrene-inform-channel -- Command to add channel capacity restrictions to layer (EXPERIMENTAL)
.SH
SYNOPSIS
.LP
\fBaskrene-inform-channel\fR \fIlayer\fR \fIshort_channel_id\fR \fIdirection\fR [\fIminimum_msat\fR] [\fImaximum_msat\fR] 
.SH
DESCRIPTION
.LP
WARNING: experimental, so API may change.
.PP
The \fBaskrene-inform-channel\fR RPC command tells askrene about the minimum or maximum current capacity of a given channel.  It can be applied whether the curren channel exists or not.  If the layer does not exist, it will be created.
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBlayer\fR (string): The name of the layer to apply this change to.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBshort_channel_id\fR (short_channel_id): The short channel id to apply this change to.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBdirection\fR (u32): The direction to apply this change to.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBminimum_msat\fR (msat, optional): The minumum value which this channel could pass.  This or \fIminimum_msat\fR must be specified, but not both.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBmaximum_msat\fR (msat, optional): The maximum value which this channel could pass.  This or \fIminimum_msat\fR must be specified, but not both.
.SH
RETURN VALUE
.LP
On success, an object containing \fBconstraint\fR is returned. It is an object containing:
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBshort_channel_id\fR (short_channel_id): The \fIshort_channel_id\fR specified.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBdirection\fR (u32): The \fIdirection\fR specified.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBtimestamp\fR (u64): The UNIX time (seconds since 1970) this was created.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBmaximum_msat\fR (msat, optional): The \fIminimum_msat\fR (if specified)
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBminimum_msat\fR (msat, optional): The \fImaximum_msat\fR (if specified)
.SH
AUTHOR
.LP
Rusty Russell <\fIrusty@rustcorp.com.au\fR> is mainly responsible.
.SH
SEE ALSO
.LP
lightning-getroutes(7), lightning-askrene-disable-node(7), lightning-askrene-create-channel(7), lightning-askrene-listlayers(7), lightning-askrene-age(7)
.SH
RESOURCES
.LP
Main web site: \fIhttps://github.com/ElementsProject/lightning\fR
