.\" -*- mode: troff; coding: utf-8 -*-
.TH "LIGHTNING-OPENCHANNEL_ABORT" "7" "" "Core Lightning pre-v24.08" ""
.SH
NAME
.LP
lightning-openchannel_abort -- Command to abort a channel to a peer
.SH
SYNOPSIS
.LP
\fBopenchannel_abort\fR \fIchannel_id\fR 
.SH
DESCRIPTION
.LP
\fCopenchannel_init\fR is a low level RPC command which initiates a channel open with a specified peer. It uses the openchannel protocol which allows for interactive transaction construction.
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBchannel_id\fR (hash): Channel id of the channel to be aborted.
.SH
RETURN VALUE
.LP
On success, an object is returned, containing:
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBchannel_id\fR (hash): The channel id of the aborted channel.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBchannel_canceled\fR (boolean): Whether this is completely canceled (there may be remaining in-flight transactions).
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBreason\fR (string): Usually \(dqAbort requested\(dq, but if it happened to fail at the same time it could be different.
.SH
ERRORS
.LP
On error the returned object will contain \fCcode\fR and \fCmessage\fR properties, with \fCcode\fR being one of the following:
.IP "\(bu" 2
-32602: If the given parameters are wrong.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
-1: Catchall nonspecific error.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
305: Peer is not connected.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
311: Unknown channel id.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
312: Channel in an invalid state
.SH
AUTHOR
.LP
Lisa Neigut <\fIniftynei@gmail.com\fR> is mainly responsible.
.SH
SEE ALSO
.LP
lightning-openchannel_init(7), lightning-openchannel_update(7), lightning-openchannel_signed(7), lightning-openchannel_bump(7), lightning-fundchannel_start(7), lightning-fundchannel_complete(7), lightning-fundchannel(7), lightning-fundpsbt(7), lightning-utxopsbt(7), lightning-multifundchannel(7)
.SH
RESOURCES
.LP
Main web site: \fIhttps://github.com/ElementsProject/lightning\fR
.SH
EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1\fR: 
.PP
Request:
.LP
.EX
$ lightning-cli openchannel_abort -k \(dqchannel_id\(dq=\(dqb020c1c6818daf024954c9ee578caad058cbcae7dd75b2c4d38b8f6f81901ff5\(dq
.EE
.LP
.EX
{
  \(dqid\(dq: \(dqexample:openchannel_abort#1\(dq,
  \(dqmethod\(dq: \(dqopenchannel_abort\(dq,
  \(dqparams\(dq: {
    \(dqchannel_id\(dq: \(dqb020c1c6818daf024954c9ee578caad058cbcae7dd75b2c4d38b8f6f81901ff5\(dq
  }
}
.EE
.PP
Response:
.LP
.EX
{
  \(dqchannel_id\(dq: \(dqb020c1c6818daf024954c9ee578caad058cbcae7dd75b2c4d38b8f6f81901ff5\(dq,
  \(dqchannel_canceled\(dq: false,
  \(dqreason\(dq: \(dqAbort requested\(dq
}
.EE
.PP
