.\" -*- mode: troff; coding: utf-8 -*-
.TH "LIGHTNING-FUNDCHANNEL_START" "7" "" "Core Lightning pre-v24.08" ""
.SH
NAME
.LP
lightning-fundchannel_start -- Command for initiating channel establishment for a lightning channel
.SH
SYNOPSIS
.LP
\fBfundchannel_start\fR \fIid\fR \fIamount\fR [\fIfeerate\fR \fIannounce\fR \fIclose_to\fR \fIpush_msat\fR \fIchannel_type\fR \fImindepth\fR \fIreserve\fR] 
.SH
DESCRIPTION
.LP
\fCfundchannel_start\fR is a lower level RPC command. It allows a user to initiate channel establishment with a connected peer.
.PP
Note that the funding transaction MUST NOT be broadcast until after channel establishment has been successfully completed by running \fCfundchannel_complete\fR, as the commitment transactions for this channel are not secured until the complete command succeeds. Broadcasting transaction before that can lead to unrecoverable loss of funds.
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBid\fR (pubkey): The peer id obtained from connect.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBamount\fR (sat): Satoshi value that the channel will be funded at. This value MUST be accurate, otherwise the negotiated commitment transactions will not encompass the correct channel value.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBfeerate\fR (feerate, optional): Feerate for subsequent commitment transactions: see \fBfundchannel\fR. Note that this is ignored for channels with \fIoption_anchors\fR (we always use a low commitment fee for these).
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBannounce\fR (boolean, optional): Whether or not to announce this channel.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBclose_to\fR (string, optional): Bitcoin address to which the channel funds should be sent to on close. Only valid if both peers have negotiated \fCoption_upfront_shutdown_script\fR. Returns \fCclose_to\fR set to closing script iff is negotiated.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBpush_msat\fR (msat, optional): Amount of millisatoshis to push to the channel peer at open. Note that this is a gift to the peer -- these satoshis are added to the initial balance of the peer at channel start and are largely unrecoverable once pushed.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBmindepth\fR (u32, optional): Number of confirmations required before we consider the channel active.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBreserve\fR (sat, optional): The amount we want the peer to maintain on its side.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBchannel_type\fR (array of u32s, optional): Each bit set in this channel_type.:
.RS
.IP "\(bu" 2
(u32, optional): Bit number.
.RE
.SH
RETURN VALUE
.LP
On success, an object is returned, containing:
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBfunding_address\fR (string): The address to send funding to for the channel. DO NOT SEND COINS TO THIS ADDRESS YET.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBscriptpubkey\fR (hex): The raw scriptPubkey for the address.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBchannel_type\fR (object, optional): Channel_type as negotiated with peer. \fI(added v24.02)\fR:
.RS
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBbits\fR (array of u32s): Each bit set in this channel_type. \fI(added v24.02)\fR:
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
(u32, optional): Bit number.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBnames\fR (array of strings): Feature name for each bit set in this channel_type. Note that \fIanchors_zero_fee_htlc_tx\fR is a deprecated synonym for \fIanchors\fR. \fI(added v24.02)\fR:
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
(string, optional) (one of \(dqstatic_remotekey/even\(dq, \(dqanchor_outputs/even\(dq, \(dqanchors_zero_fee_htlc_tx/even\(dq, \(dqanchors/even\(dq, \(dqscid_alias/even\(dq, \(dqzeroconf/even\(dq): Name of feature bit.
.RE
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBclose_to\fR (hex, optional): The raw scriptPubkey which mutual close will go to; only present if \fIclose_to\fR parameter was specified and peer supports \fCoption_upfront_shutdown_script\fR.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBmindepth\fR (u32, optional): Number of confirmations before we consider the channel active.
.LP
The following warnings may also be returned:
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBwarning_usage\fR: A warning not to prematurely broadcast the funding transaction (always present!).
.SH
ERRORS
.LP
On error the returned object will contain \fCcode\fR and \fCmessage\fR properties, with \fCcode\fR being one of the following:
.IP "\(bu" 2
-32602: If the given parameters are wrong.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
-1: Catchall nonspecific error.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
300: The amount exceeded the maximum configured funding amount.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
301: The provided \fCpush_msat\fR is greater than the provided \fCamount\fR.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
304: Still syncing with bitcoin network
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
305: Peer is not connected.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
306: Unknown peer id.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
312: Peer negotiated \fCoption_dual_fund\fR, must use \fCopenchannel_init\fR not \fCfundchannel_start\fR. (Only if \(ga\(gaexperimental-dual-fund is enabled)
.SH
AUTHOR
.LP
Lisa Neigut <\fIniftynei@gmail.com\fR> is mainly responsible.
.SH
SEE ALSO
.LP
lightning-connect(7), lightning-fundchannel(7), lightning-multifundchannel(7), lightning-fundchannel_complete(7), lightning-fundchannel_cancel(7), lightning-openchannel_init(7), lightning-openchannel_update(7), lightning-openchannel_signed(7), lightning-openchannel_bump(7), lightning-openchannel_abort(7)
.SH
RESOURCES
.LP
Main web site: \fIhttps://github.com/ElementsProject/lightning\fR
.SH
EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1\fR: 
.PP
Request:
.LP
.EX
$ lightning-cli fundchannel_start \(dq027ba5906fad81fcdbb774b4c806eb572b7fac3bee4720b12c44e7f70931d4b7cc\(dq \(dq16777216\(dq
.EE
.LP
.EX
{
  \(dqid\(dq: \(dqexample:fundchannel_start#1\(dq,
  \(dqmethod\(dq: \(dqfundchannel_start\(dq,
  \(dqparams\(dq: [
    \(dq027ba5906fad81fcdbb774b4c806eb572b7fac3bee4720b12c44e7f70931d4b7cc\(dq,
    16777216
  ]
}
.EE
.PP
Response:
.LP
.EX
{
  \(dqfunding_address\(dq: \(dqbcrt1q5ptrvwlgcldm2ygf3nzsl09zfpp7dmtduqlczer97xvc4x5z5zwsc2ulv4\(dq,
  \(dqscriptpubkey\(dq: \(dq0020a056363be8c7dbb511098cc50fbca24843e6ed6de03f816465f1998a9a82a09d\(dq,
  \(dqchannel_type\(dq: {
    \(dqbits\(dq: [
      12,
      22
    ],
    \(dqnames\(dq: [
      \(dqstatic_remotekey/even\(dq,
      \(dqanchors/even\(dq
    ]
  },
  \(dqwarning_usage\(dq: \(dqThe funding transaction MUST NOT be broadcast until after channel establishment has been successfully completed by running \(gafundchannel_complete\(ga\(dq
}
.EE
.PP
\fBExample 2\fR: 
.PP
Request:
.LP
.EX
$ lightning-cli fundchannel_start -k \(dqid\(dq=\(dq027ba5906fad81fcdbb774b4c806eb572b7fac3bee4720b12c44e7f70931d4b7cc\(dq \(dqamount\(dq=16777216
.EE
.LP
.EX
{
  \(dqid\(dq: \(dqexample:fundchannel_start#2\(dq,
  \(dqmethod\(dq: \(dqfundchannel_start\(dq,
  \(dqparams\(dq: {
    \(dqid\(dq: \(dq027ba5906fad81fcdbb774b4c806eb572b7fac3bee4720b12c44e7f70931d4b7cc\(dq,
    \(dqamount\(dq: 16777216
  }
}
.EE
.PP
Response:
.LP
.EX
{
  \(dqfunding_address\(dq: \(dqbcrt1q4hz6a4gtecfmy8z870cwkq2gzc0t7n9u9pu23689u55ghwewemqsv4v2zs\(dq,
  \(dqscriptpubkey\(dq: \(dq0020adc5aed50bce13b21c47f3f0eb0148161ebf4cbc2878a8e8e5e5288bbb2ecec1\(dq,
  \(dqchannel_type\(dq: {
    \(dqbits\(dq: [
      12,
      22
    ],
    \(dqnames\(dq: [
      \(dqstatic_remotekey/even\(dq,
      \(dqanchors/even\(dq
    ]
  },
  \(dqwarning_usage\(dq: \(dqThe funding transaction MUST NOT be broadcast until after channel establishment has been successfully completed by running \(gafundchannel_complete\(ga\(dq
}
.EE
.PP
