.\" -*- mode: troff; coding: utf-8 -*-
.TH "LIGHTNING-DEPRECATIONS" "7" "" "Core Lightning pre-v24.08" ""
.SH
NAME
.LP
lightning-deprecations -- Command to enable/disable deprecated APIs
.SH
SYNOPSIS
.LP
\fBdeprecations\fR \fIenable\fR 
.SH
DESCRIPTION
.LP
Command \fIadded\fR in v24.02.
.PP
The \fBdeprecations\fR RPC command is used to override global config option \fCallow-deprecated-apis\fR for further RPC commands on this same connection. This can be useful for developer testing to ensure you don't accidentally rely on deprecated features.
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBenable\fR (boolean): Flag to enable or disable deprecated APIs. Setting it to \fCfalse\fR will neither accept deprecated parameters or commands, nor output deprecated fields.
.SH
RETURN VALUE
.LP
On success, an empty object is returned.
.SH
ERRORS
.LP
On failure, one of the following error codes may be returned:
.IP "\(bu" 2
-32602: Error in given parameters.
.SH
AUTHOR
.LP
Rusty Russell <\fIrusty@blockstream.com\fR> wrote the initial version of this man page.
.SH
SEE ALSO
.LP
lightningd-config(5), lightning-notifications(7)
.SH
RESOURCES
.LP
Main web site: \fIhttps://github.com/ElementsProject/lightning\fR
.SH
EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1\fR: 
.PP
Request:
.LP
.EX
$ lightning-cli deprecations -k \(dqenable\(dq=True
.EE
.LP
.EX
{
  \(dqid\(dq: \(dqexample:deprecations#1\(dq,
  \(dqmethod\(dq: \(dqdeprecations\(dq,
  \(dqparams\(dq: {
    \(dqenable\(dq: true
  }
}
.EE
.PP
Response:
.LP
.EX
{}
.EE
.PP
\fBExample 2\fR: 
.PP
Request:
.LP
.EX
$ lightning-cli deprecations -k \(dqenable\(dq=False
.EE
.LP
.EX
{
  \(dqid\(dq: \(dqexample:deprecations#2\(dq,
  \(dqmethod\(dq: \(dqdeprecations\(dq,
  \(dqparams\(dq: {
    \(dqenable\(dq: false
  }
}
.EE
.PP
Response:
.LP
.EX
{}
.EE
.PP
