.\" -*- mode: troff; coding: utf-8 -*-
.TH "LIGHTNING-DELINVOICE" "7" "" "Core Lightning pre-v24.08" ""
.SH
NAME
.LP
lightning-delinvoice -- Command for removing an invoice (or just its description)
.SH
SYNOPSIS
.LP
\fBdelinvoice\fR \fIlabel\fR \fIstatus\fR [\fIdesconly\fR] 
.SH
DESCRIPTION
.LP
The \fBdelinvoice\fR RPC command removes an invoice with \fIstatus\fR as given in \fBlistinvoices\fR, or with \fIdesconly\fR set, removes its description.
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBlabel\fR (one of): Label of the invoice to be deleted.:
.RS
.IP "\(bu" 2
(string)
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
(u64)
.RE
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBstatus\fR (string) (one of \(dqpaid\(dq, \(dqexpired\(dq, \(dqunpaid\(dq): Label of the invoice to be deleted. The caller should be particularly aware of the error case caused by the \fIstatus\fR changing just before this command is invoked!
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBdesconly\fR (boolean, optional): If set to True, the invoice is not deleted, but has its description removed (this can save space with very large descriptions, as would be used with lightning-invoice(7) \fIdeschashonly\fR.
.SH
RETURN VALUE
.LP
Note: The return is the same as an object from lightning-listinvoices(7).
On success, an object is returned, containing:
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBlabel\fR (string): Unique label given at creation time.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBpayment_hash\fR (hash): The hash of the \fIpayment_preimage\fR which will prove payment.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBcreated_index\fR (u64): 1-based index indicating order this invoice was created in. \fI(added v23.08)\fR
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBstatus\fR (string) (one of \(dqpaid\(dq, \(dqexpired\(dq, \(dqunpaid\(dq): State of invoice.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBexpires_at\fR (u64): UNIX timestamp when invoice expires (or expired).
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBbolt11\fR (string, optional): BOLT11 string.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBbolt12\fR (string, optional): BOLT12 string.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBamount_msat\fR (msat, optional): The amount required to pay this invoice.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBdescription\fR (string, optional): Description used in the invoice.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBupdated_index\fR (u64, optional): 1-based index indicating order this invoice was changed (only present if it has changed since creation). \fI(added v23.08)\fR
.LP
If \fBbolt12\fR is present:
- \fBlocal_offer_id\fR (hex, optional): Offer for which this invoice was created.
- \fBinvreq_payer_note\fR (string, optional): The optional \fIinvreq_payer_note\fR from invoice_request which created this invoice.
.PP
If \fBstatus\fR is \(dqpaid\(dq:
- \fBpay_index\fR (u64): Unique index for this invoice payment.
- \fBamount_received_msat\fR (msat): How much was actually received.
- \fBpaid_at\fR (u64): UNIX timestamp of when payment was received.
- \fBpayment_preimage\fR (secret): SHA256 of this is the \fIpayment_hash\fR offered in the invoice.
.SH
ERRORS
.LP
The following errors may be reported:
.IP "\(bu" 2
-1: Database error.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
905: An invoice with that label does not exist.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
906: The invoice \fIstatus\fR does not match the parameter. An error object will be returned as error \fIdata\fR, containing \fIcurrent_status\fR and \fIexpected_status\fR fields. This is most likely due to the \fIstatus\fR of the invoice changing just before this command is invoked.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
908: The invoice already has no description, and \fIdesconly\fR was set.
.SH
AUTHOR
.LP
Rusty Russell <\fIrusty@rustcorp.com.au\fR> is mainly responsible.
.SH
SEE ALSO
.LP
lightning-listinvoices(7), lightning-waitinvoice(7), lightning-invoice(7), lightning-autoclean-status(7)
.SH
RESOURCES
.LP
Main web site: \fIhttps://github.com/ElementsProject/lightning\fR
.SH
EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1\fR: 
.PP
Request:
.LP
.EX
$ lightning-cli delinvoice -k \(dqlabel\(dq=\(dqlbl_l36\(dq \(dqstatus\(dq=\(dqunpaid\(dq
.EE
.LP
.EX
{
  \(dqid\(dq: \(dqexample:delinvoice#1\(dq,
  \(dqmethod\(dq: \(dqdelinvoice\(dq,
  \(dqparams\(dq: {
    \(dqlabel\(dq: \(dqlbl_l36\(dq,
    \(dqstatus\(dq: \(dqunpaid\(dq
  }
}
.EE
.PP
Response:
.LP
.EX
{
  \(dqlabel\(dq: \(dqlbl_l36\(dq,
  \(dqbolt11\(dq: \(dqlnbcrt500u1pn2s3fwsp5e6nltgzk3yqn5033r6z2q32pzduys3zs5dtzc5cjs60ppcgytrsqpp5ykhhcxzcqeng2gfggmsdja3x8h0qmkl35lw9z7n99pfkg8w0s8asdqcdsenvgryv4ekxunfwp6xjmmwxqyjw5qcqp9rzjqgkjyd3q5dv6gllh77kygly9c3kfy0d9xwyjyxsq2nq3c83u5vw4jqqq0vqqqqgqqyqqqqqpqqqqqzsqqc9qxpqysgqwn7uwmy3x8u9c4ea0ka0yp3qvs0w9m7459g65kalm553vusctq8kseaph7tav4ryjfghnhu0ggjhhkrqmafarqkdsrzsk8stcvdmpmcqwfsajc\(dq,
  \(dqpayment_hash\(dq: \(dq25af7c1858066685212846e0d976263dde0ddbf1a7dc517a652853641dcf81fb\(dq,
  \(dqamount_msat\(dq: 50000000,
  \(dqstatus\(dq: \(dqunpaid\(dq,
  \(dqdescription\(dq: \(dql36 description\(dq,
  \(dqexpires_at\(dq: 1722908590,
  \(dqcreated_index\(dq: 9
}
.EE
.PP
\fBExample 2\fR: 
.PP
Request:
.LP
.EX
$ lightning-cli delinvoice -k \(dqlabel\(dq=\(dqlbl_l37\(dq \(dqstatus\(dq=\(dqpaid\(dq \(dqdesconly\(dq=True
.EE
.LP
.EX
{
  \(dqid\(dq: \(dqexample:delinvoice#2\(dq,
  \(dqmethod\(dq: \(dqdelinvoice\(dq,
  \(dqparams\(dq: {
    \(dqlabel\(dq: \(dqlbl_l37\(dq,
    \(dqstatus\(dq: \(dqpaid\(dq,
    \(dqdesconly\(dq: true
  }
}
.EE
.PP
Response:
.LP
.EX
{
  \(dqlabel\(dq: \(dqlbl_l37\(dq,
  \(dqbolt11\(dq: \(dqlnbcrt500u1pn2s3fwsp5g96a3t3kn2we3ulrepd8eg4nw900wc324r06zlpr8py7p4zyftrspp5ggs9vzev5gcgthdysjrk0pcjgl3r5fwy4zgw6m48kk9nwx4h9slqdqcdsenwgryv4ekxunfwp6xjmmwxqyjw5qcqp9rzjqgkjyd3q5dv6gllh77kygly9c3kfy0d9xwyjyxsq2nq3c83u5vw4jqqq0vqqqqgqqyqqqqqpqqqqqzsqqc9qxpqysgqwkmgxwugmtjvf9cu324h87x5ux3cwa6glefyfxvergy3mw8gwtnzg05mrf69yz0dafk4n7u7asaxh2nx5jsylwvqttzxmr9krpc9rlsquhqkt4\(dq,
  \(dqpayment_hash\(dq: \(dq4220560b2ca23085dda4848767871247e23a25c4a890ed6ea7b58b371ab72c3e\(dq,
  \(dqamount_msat\(dq: 50000000,
  \(dqstatus\(dq: \(dqpaid\(dq,
  \(dqpay_index\(dq: 9,
  \(dqamount_received_msat\(dq: 50000000,
  \(dqpaid_at\(dq: 1722303802,
  \(dqpayment_preimage\(dq: \(dqe876ca5ae4ed9897178b2b3a17997256ad669335eb9201e05e3c97ffb83c634b\(dq,
  \(dqexpires_at\(dq: 1722908590,
  \(dqcreated_index\(dq: 10,
  \(dqupdated_index\(dq: 9
}
.EE
.PP
