.\" -*- mode: troff; coding: utf-8 -*-
.TH "LIGHTNING-ASKRENE-CREATE-CHANNEL" "7" "" "Core Lightning pre-v24.08" ""
.SH
NAME
.LP
lightning-askrene-create-channel -- Command to add a channel to layer (EXPERIMENTAL)
.SH
SYNOPSIS
.LP
\fBaskrene-create-channel\fR \fIlayer\fR \fIsource\fR \fIdestination\fR \fIshort_channel_id\fR \fIcapacity_msat\fR \fIhtlc_min\fR \fIhtlc_max\fR \fIbase_fee\fR \fIproportional_fee\fR \fIdelay\fR 
.SH
DESCRIPTION
.LP
WARNING: experimental, so API may change.
.PP
The \fBaskrene-create-channel\fR RPC command tells askrene to populate one direction of a channel in the given layer.  If the channel already exists, it will be overridden.  If the layer does not exist, it will be created.
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBlayer\fR (string): The name of the layer to apply this change to.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBsource\fR (pubkey): The source node id for the channel.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBdestination\fR (pubkey): The destination node id for the channel.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBshort_channel_id\fR (short_channel_id): The short channel id for the channel.  If a channel with this short channel id already exists in \fIlayer\fR, the \fIsource\fR, \fIdestination\fR and \fIcapacity_msat\fR must be the same.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBcapacity_msat\fR (msat): The capacity (onchain size) of the channel.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBhtlc_min\fR (msat): The minimum value allowed in this direction.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBhtlc_max\fR (msat): The maximum value allowed in this direction.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBbase_fee\fR (msat): The base fee to apply to use the channel in this direction.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBproportional_fee\fR (u32): The proportional fee (in parts per million) to apply to use the channel in this direction.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBdelay\fR (u16): The CLTV delay required for this direction.
.SH
RETURN VALUE
.LP
On success, an empty object is returned.
.SH
AUTHOR
.LP
Rusty Russell <\fIrusty@rustcorp.com.au\fR> is mainly responsible.
.SH
SEE ALSO
.LP
lightning-getroutes(7), lightning-askrene-disable-node(7), lightning-askrene-inform-channel(7), lightning-askrene-listlayers(7), lightning-askrene-age(7)
.SH
RESOURCES
.LP
Main web site: \fIhttps://github.com/ElementsProject/lightning\fR
