.\" -*- mode: troff; coding: utf-8 -*-
.TH "LIGHTNING-FUNDCHANNEL_CANCEL" "7" "" "Core Lightning pre-v24.08" ""
.SH
NAME
.LP
lightning-fundchannel_cancel -- Command for completing channel establishment
.SH
SYNOPSIS
.LP
\fBfundchannel_cancel\fR \fIid\fR 
.SH
DESCRIPTION
.LP
\fCfundchannel_cancel\fR is a lower level RPC command. It allows channel opener to cancel a channel before funding broadcast with a connected peer.
.PP
Note that the funding transaction MUST NOT be broadcast before \fCfundchannel_cancel\fR. Broadcasting transaction before \fCfundchannel_cancel\fR WILL lead to unrecoverable loss of funds.
.PP
If \fCfundchannel_cancel\fR is called after \fCfundchannel_complete\fR, the remote peer may disconnect when command succeeds. In this case, user need to connect to remote peer again before opening channel.
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBid\fR (pubkey): Node id of the remote peer with which to cancel.
.SH
RETURN VALUE
.LP
On success, an object is returned, containing:
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBcancelled\fR (string): A message indicating it was cancelled by RPC.
.SH
ERRORS
.LP
On error the returned object will contain \fCcode\fR and \fCmessage\fR properties, with \fCcode\fR being one of the following:
.IP "\(bu" 2
-32602: If the given parameters are wrong.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
306: Unknown peer id.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
307: No channel currently being funded that can be cancelled.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
308: It is unsafe to cancel the channel: the funding transaction has been broadcast, or there are HTLCs already in the channel, or the peer was the initiator and not us.
.SH
AUTHOR
.LP
Lisa Neigut <\fIniftynei@gmail.com\fR> is mainly responsible.
.SH
SEE ALSO
.LP
lightning-connect(7), lightning-fundchannel(7), lightning-multifundchannel(7), lightning-fundchannel_start(7), lightning-fundchannel_complete(7), lightning-openchannel_init(7), lightning-openchannel_update(7), lightning-openchannel_signed(7), lightning-openchannel_abort(7)
.SH
RESOURCES
.LP
Main web site: \fIhttps://github.com/ElementsProject/lightning\fR
.SH
EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1\fR: 
.PP
Request:
.LP
.EX
$ lightning-cli fundchannel_cancel \(dq027ba5906fad81fcdbb774b4c806eb572b7fac3bee4720b12c44e7f70931d4b7cc\(dq
.EE
.LP
.EX
{
  \(dqid\(dq: \(dqexample:fundchannel_cancel#1\(dq,
  \(dqmethod\(dq: \(dqfundchannel_cancel\(dq,
  \(dqparams\(dq: [
    \(dq027ba5906fad81fcdbb774b4c806eb572b7fac3bee4720b12c44e7f70931d4b7cc\(dq
  ]
}
.EE
.PP
Response:
.LP
.EX
{
  \(dqcancelled\(dq: \(dqChannel open canceled by RPC\(dq
}
.EE
.PP
\fBExample 2\fR: 
.PP
Request:
.LP
.EX
$ lightning-cli fundchannel_cancel -k \(dqid\(dq=\(dq027ba5906fad81fcdbb774b4c806eb572b7fac3bee4720b12c44e7f70931d4b7cc\(dq
.EE
.LP
.EX
{
  \(dqid\(dq: \(dqexample:fundchannel_cancel#2\(dq,
  \(dqmethod\(dq: \(dqfundchannel_cancel\(dq,
  \(dqparams\(dq: {
    \(dqid\(dq: \(dq027ba5906fad81fcdbb774b4c806eb572b7fac3bee4720b12c44e7f70931d4b7cc\(dq
  }
}
.EE
.PP
Response:
.LP
.EX
{
  \(dqcancelled\(dq: \(dqChannel open canceled by RPC\(dq
}
.EE
.PP
